#summary The goal of this page is to explain the ways in which ComplexNets++ can be used.

= Graphical mode =

To start the application in graphical mode, just invoke `complexnets` whithout arguments from command line.
{{{
$ ./complexnets
}}}


= Command line mode =

ComplexNets++ can also run using the command line.

== Loading a graph from an input file ==

The syntax to load a graph from an input file is the following:
{{{
$ ./complexnets -i <filename>
}}}

If the file represents a weighted graph, the command must include the `--weighted` argument:
{{{
$ ./complexnets -i <filename> --weighted
}}}

If the file represents a digraph, the command must include the `--digraph` argument:
{{{
$ ./complexnets -i <filename> --digraph
}}}

NOTE: Currently, both `--weighted` AND `--digraph` arguments CANNOT be used at the same time, as weighted digraphs aren't still supported by complexnets.

== Creating a graph using a model ==

The graphs can also be created using a model. To achieve this, the command must have the following syntax:
{{{
$ ./complexnets <model_parameters>
}}}
Where `<model_parameters>` can take one of the following values depending on the used model:
 * Erdos-Renyi:
{{{
--erdos -n <number_of_nodes> -p <probability>
}}}
 * Barabási-Albert:
{{{
--barabasi -n <number_of_nodes> -c <number_of_initial_nodes> -m <number_of_attachment_nodes>
}}}
 * Extended Hot:
{{{
--hot -n <number_of_nodes> -m <new_vertex_edges> -x <neighbors_select> -q <added_edges> -r <edges_select>
}}}
 * Molloy-Reed:
{{{
--molloy -k <ks_file>
}}}
 * Hyperbolic:
{{{
--hyperbolic --n=<number of nodes> -a=<radial density> --deg=<degree coefficient>
}}}

== Computing a property on a graph ==

To compute a property given a file, the command must have the following syntax:
{{{
$ ./complexnets <graph> <property>
}}}
where `<graph>` are the arguments to load a graph or create it using a model, and `<property>` can take the following values depending on the calculated property:
 * Betweenness:
{{{
--betweenness <vertex_index>
}}}
 * Degree distribution:
{{{
--ddist <degree>
}}}

NOTE: when working with a digraph, this command will show the number of vertices having `<degree>` as in-degree and out-degree at the same time.

 * Clustering coefficient:
{{{
--clustering <vertex_index>
}}}
 * Nearest neighbors degree:
{{{
--knn <vertex_index>
}}}
 * Shell index:
{{{
--shell <vertex_index>
}}}

== Fitting data against a power law ==

To test a graph (either generated or loaded from a file) for a power law distribution, use the --print-deg option and redirect the output to the appropiate script. For instance:
{{{
$complexnets <graph> --print-deg=1 | python powerlawpy/script.py
}}}

The script is independent to the project and requires several extra dependencies, mainly: python, python-dev, numpy, scigy. Please refer to the appropiate README for installation details.

== Saving a graph in a file ==

To save a loaded or model-generated graph in a file, the command must have the following syntax:
{{{
$ ./complexnets <graph> -o <file>
}}}
where `<graph>` are the arguments to load a graph or create it using a model.

== Generating a Gnuplot readable output ==

To generate a file that can be read and plotted by Gnuplot, the command must have the following syntax:
{{{
$ ./complexnets <graph> -o <output_file> <function>
}}}
where `<graph>` are the arguments to load a graph or create it using a model and `<function>` can take the following values depending on the calculated function:
 * Betweenness vs. Degree:
{{{
--betweenness-output
}}}
 * Degree distribution:
{{{
--ddist-output
}}}
 If the output is expected to be grouped using log-bins, the command must include the `log-bin` option:
{{{
--ddist-output --log-bin=<number_of_bins>
}}}

NOTE: when working with digraphs, this command will output the in-degree probabilities into a file with `_in_degree` suffix and the out-degree probabilities into a file with `_out_degree` suffix.

 * Clustering coefficient vs. Degree:
{{{
--clustering-output
}}}
 * Nearest neighbors degree vs. Degree:
{{{
--knn-output
}}}
 * Shell index vs. Degree:
{{{
--shell-output
}}}

== Using a bash script to generate plots ==

A bash script can be used to generate the plot for each property of a graph. To achieve this, the following command must be invoked:
{{{
$ sh plotter.sh <input_file>
}}}
This command creates a directory in which the plots for betweenness, degree distribution, clustering coefficient, nearest neighbors degree and shell index are saved for the graph represented by `<input_file>`. The input file must have an extension.

If the command is invoked with one more parameter:
{{{
$ sh plotter.sh <input_file> <number_of_bins>
}}}
then the degree distribution is also plotted using the log-bin method, with the number of bins specified by `<number_of_bins>`.